# Notes

## Recent progress

I have been adding more components to my PyLith skeleton codebase.

## Status of pull requests?

- mm: PR#28 Fix setting mpi.libraries for mpich flavor of MPI
- pyre: PR#161 Update C++ and pybind11 constructors for journals for consistency across Python, pybind11, and C++
- pyre: PR#167 Improve algorithm to detect Linux distribution. Add Fedora and RockyLinux distributions.

## mm

1. How does mm handle "install" for different targets (`opt` versus `debug`)?

    Install both debug and optimized by default. Use modules to specify prefix that is aware of target (compiler). Not use mm as release tool. mm reads user variables to decide what to do.

2. Does mm support C++ header files with `.hh` suffix?

    No. TODO: Create issue. DONE.

3. Does mm support creating source distributions (equivalent of `make dist`)?

    Trivial if just compiling and linking. If autogenerating, then more complex.
    Distribution via pip, etc would recommend CMAKE.

4. Does mm support testing external dependencies (equivalent of `configure`)?

    mm itself does not do these checks. merlin is by design the correct entity. merlin (1) understands dependencies of pieces of project better than make and (2) use builder to go from one node to another.

5. How does mm support test cases with multiple source files?

    Default logic in mm for a directory in the test suite. Any file it recognizes as source, it drops extension and makes test driver. Can specify multiple test cases for a test driver. Notion of compiling additional source files was not in the design. Could use a local Make.mmm file that does not conflict.

    Future meeting: Discuss how we define our test C++ targets.

## MPI communicators

Strategy for scalability, extensibility, and PETSc

- World (application)
  - Boundary value problem (pylith "problem") and PETSc?
  - journal daemon
  - checkpoint manager
  - embedded visualization
  - steering (meta stuff that don't interfere with solution; journal activations, checkpoint freq, visualization freq, etc)
  - probes (watch solution at time step, etc)

1. Create subcommunicator for compute
2. Node 0 in World is conduit to outside world.

Gather diagnostics from compute nodes and ship out from frontend. Node 0 gathers from workers. Can talk to another machine (tunnel to front end; tunnel to local; use through intermediary). Event loop to journal activates come in and diagnostics go out.

Pyre can build event loop (ports in MPI bindings).

Codify into shell for launching and creating communicators.

## Python package tests

1. Why do you not use unittest or another test suite for Pyre?

SImplicity, lack of need to integrate with anyone. Silence means success.

unittest did not impress Michael.

Like pytest. Integration of coverage and profiling (--cov). Monkey patching. Way to simulate environment.

Integrated pytest with mm. pytest requires predictable prefix for test entry points.
AugmentCode - built for code development.
