# Notes

These are issues in Pyre that are related to PyLith development.

## MPI configuration

`.config/pyre/pyre.yaml`

- It looks like I need to specify the full path to `mpiexec` for the launcher. Is this expected?
- If so, how do I use $HOME in the path for mpiexec?

## MPICH integration

- Need to be able to tell Pyre that external package (MPI) is in user-specified location (don't look for it)
  - My Ubuntu workstation has dpkg but OpenMPI installed manually
  - `pyre/platforms/DPkg.py` `Dpkg.identify()` Line 82 alternatives is not useful in error message.
- Use of --hostfile in Launcher.py is not standard (no equivalent in MPICH)
  - `tests/mpi.pgk/mpi.pfg` specifies hostfile

## Pyre

- What is the path forward for `pyre_showConfiguration()` to show the location from locator? Should a "detail" argument be added?
  - Right now I go into the debugger and call `pyre_getTrait(name)`.

Create issue (pyre_shoeConfiguration())

weaver has language. Take in weaver (with language as trait) and render using weaver.

Don't want to take advanced traits to be taken away. 
detail - how much information

Think about user complexity level. Trait base class with default value 5.


## Language requirements

- Python 3.13
- C++ 20

## Create issues

- ~~Replace `import distro` in `Linux.py` with `platform.freedesktop_os_release()` for Python 3.10 and later~~
  - ~~Need to check keys on standard Linux distributions~~
- ~~Refactor Launcher into MPI-flavored varieties (OpenMPI, MPICH, Generic?)~~
- ~~Refactor external package configuration. Only use package manager (macports, dpkg) to get information if user has not specified information.~~
- ~~`pyre_showConfiguration()` add `detail` (level of detail; show locator information at high level of detail) and `ux_level`? (user sophistication level)~~