# Notes

These are issues in Pyre that are related to PyLith development.

## Pyre clean up

- Journal pybind11 constructors do not match Python of C++ constructors [#151](https://github.com/pyre/pyre/issues/151). Brad
- Add $PREFIX/share/$PACKAGE to places for configuration files [#146](https://github.com/pyre/pyre/issues/146). Michael (Brad monitor branch) Tricky- existing clients; bump up minor version; breaking change; add to search path and deprecate?
- Command line option --help does not show all special options (e.g., --config) [#135](https://github.com/pyre/pyre/issues/135) --DEBUG --dry --config (options available to all applications); not user relevant. Developer flags. --config is not a real trait. Special case like --help. Framework does not know it exists.

ADD NOTES to issue about pyre_doc.

aliases for pyre properties. (alternative names can be in other languages (any unicode))

### Running Pyre tests

```bash
cd tests.journal.pkg

# Works
mm tests.journal.pkg.fireweall_loop

# Error
mm firewall_loop
make: *** No rule to make target`.'firewall_loop'.  Stop.
```

mm allows passing command line arguments to test drivers and set up and take-down.
Can create string (starting from root of test directory, using dots instead of / (should change)). Know current working directory. Make auxiliary target on the fly for target. 

Michael will send email with where in mm the auxiliary target is created.

## Feature requests

- Implement the ability for Pyre to report configuration errors [#137](https://github.com/pyre/pyre/issues/137).

  Current version of Pyre does not spell check configuration store.
  "pull driven" - components know its own name and traits.
  I have an attribute foo. Does configuration store have "PYRE_NAME.TRAIT"?
  Drawbacks: breaks promise configuration ignores potential future components. Strict spellchecking - strike balance between complaining about typos that are false negatives and letting typos through. Need hook at configuration time that components can opt-in to validate configuration store. Permission components can opt out.
  Root component (pylith application) should say every component is strict (let component have opinion but override by parent, the application).

- `pyre_showConfiguration(deep=True)` does not traverse into list objects [#136](https://github.com/pyre/pyre/issues/136)

  Many holes in containers. Point a finger at dict, lists. Will generate more issues.

:TODO: Prioritize issue and send email. Put asterisk next to issues that I can help with.

- Allow building Pyre MPI package with local build of MPI (OpenMPI or MPICH) [#159](https://github.com/pyre/pyre/issues/159)

### MPI

`app.shell` is `mpi.Launcher.Launcher`, but `Launcher.mpi` is None.

How is the `Launcher.mpi` `Facility` supposed to be set?

pyre.externals.MPI component (default; find out what machine you are on -> package manager -> ask what MPI is installed? MacOS -> macports; Ubuntu Linux -> dpkg)

Basic implementation: user must configure
family name of MPI

mpi.shells.mpirun.mpi: pyre.externals.mpi.openmpi#brad
brad:
    launcher: mpiexec
    defines:
    bindir: 
    incdir:
    libdir:
    libraries: [list of libraries on link line]

pyre.yaml in home directory

Default: should generate an error if can't find MPI using default.