# Notes

## Tests

1. What is the best way to check a `uri` object in tests?

    Filenames being strings is lowest common denominator.
    A path is a presentation of Path
    pathlib provides a interface for local addresses.
    URI has some annoyances for local paths.
    Python has a intermediate solution. __fspath__ makes an object pathlike. Don't accept URIs as first class citizen.
    What you test for URIs depends on what part of the logic is part of the calculation? Some might be S3 and some might be local disk.
    If expecting a URI, then automatically upgrade a string or path to URI. Gracefully downgrade to string when necessary.
    What is missing?
      Address part of URI is a string not a path. 
      Address part of URI should be a path, so we can attribute.
      At time of creating URI you have the opportunity to create a path.
      Local path: "file://".
      Assembly for creating str(uri) may generate artificats.
      URI has scheme, authority, etc. Will uncover non-local.

      Some URIs can require authentication.
      Could be in a database (db://).
      Disadvantage with URIs is that they always refer to leaves (e.g., not directories).
      Pyre needs `path` and differentiate between `leaf` and `container`. Need URI rules to understand if it supports this distinction.



2. Review update code layout.
   1. Still getting conflicts in configuration namespace despite calling `pyre.executive.shutdown()`.

## YAML configuration for lists of components

```yaml
# Current setup
elastic_properties.values:
  - basic#vp
  - basic#vs

vp:
  name: vp
  units: km/s
  expression: 2*x+0.5*z
  coord_sys: cartesian
vs:
  name: vs
  units: m/s
  expression: x + y
  coord_sys: geographic

# Use dicts instead of defining a component?
elastic_properties.values:
  - name: vp
    units: km/s
    expression: x
    coord_sys: cartesian
  - name: vs
    units: km/s
    expression: x
    coord_sys: cartesian

```

Should I use a list of dicts instead of a list of components?

Older configuration formats like ini files cannot support this.
pfg (ini-like) cannot support this without retraining users.

Don't want input file to be programming language.

YAML and TOML could be baseline for expressing configurations.

list, set, dict, and tuple traits have schema. Not applied correctly because could not extract.

TODO: What does command line?

  Open issue (feature request). What are possible strategies.

  Should get tree of configuration events from YAML parser.
  By design, I don't know who you are until component is instantiated. In meantime, swallowed configuration events. Receive and store events from configuration medium (file, command, line). Later, when component is instantiated, it should have a way to apply schema.

  Not available in current command line implementation (sets, list, tuple).

  Want to retain ability name components.


## AlTar

I talked with both Sarah Minson and Lijun Zhu. Both are interested in getting Sarah's latest algorithm developments into AlTar.

Lijun has forked AlTar and his repo is accumulating significant new features, etc.

1. Who owns the AlTar repo? Who should have responsibility for it?

Under AlTar Framework. Contribute models, utilities, ...
Michael created organization. Can delegate, etc.
First, hybrid code do as many GPUs and a CPU can see. Some code on laptop.
Less interest in understanding framework.

AlTar repo. has 3-4 Paul Lundgren's volcano models. Inflation, Mogi source, GPS station, 3D projects for LOS.

2. Is there a path for merging Lijun's fork back into the original AlTar repository?
3. How can we proceed with development of AlTar in an efficient way?
   1. PRs are reviewed and merged in a reasonable time frame.
   2. We follow "best practices" (protocols directory, tests, documentation in same branch).


Lijun did not dig into Pyre.

CUDA arrays - create subdirectory

Is there a path?

Hope has not broken framework: described, staged, and launched. Pyre has rules for doing this.
AlTar has structure for doing this. Simulation clock. Markov chains. Event driven system. Algebra for specifying events. Related to logging, visualization, checkpointing, etc.


Are pytest conftest.py files inherited in subdirectories?

    conftest.py is 
    https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.1.x/reference/fixtures.html#conftest-py-sharing-fixtures-across-multiple-files

    > You can have multiple nested directories/packages containing your tests, and each directory can have its own `conftest.py` with its own fixtures, adding on to the ones provided by the `conftest.py` files in parent directories.

pyre.shutdown() is shutting everything down. Anything attached to a class record will not go away. Need to clean up.

Discuss how to access `from ...protocols.spatial_databases import uniform_value`.

